README.md, before:

# Assignment #02 - Software Architecture and Platforms - a.y. 2024-2025

- **Description:** Consider the "EBike application" seen in the first assignment. The objective of the second assignment is to design and develop a distributed version based on microservices and microservices patterns - as discussed in modules 2.X and in Lab Notes about microservices patterns, and adopting DDD as reference method for the analysis and development stage.
    
- **Deliverable**:  a zipped folder ``Assignment-02-<Surname>`` including a maven-based or gradle-based project, with sources and the report in PDF. The deliverable can be submitted using a link on the course web site.

- **Deadline:** November 29, 2024 - 9:00 AM

## Requirements

### User Stories

|As a| I want to|so that I can|
|----|----------|-------------|
|user|go on a ride with a rented bike|leave it wherever i want|
|user|check my credit|understand if it needs to be recharged|
|user|recharge my credit|go on a ride|
|system administrator|see the current position of every bike|check if was left too far|
|system administrator|see which users are currently riding a bike|spot any anomaly if present|
|system administrator|see all the registered users and their credit|spot any anomaly if present|
|system administrator|add new bikes to the system|increase the number of bikes in the future|

### Use cases

![Use case diagram](./doc/diagrams/use-cases.png)

#### Scenarios

- Go on a ride:
    1. The user chooses an available bike and selects "Start ride"
    1. The user can see his credits updating while he's riding
    1. The user selects "End ride"

- Check credit:
    1. The user sees his credit right in the home screen

- Recharge credit:
    1. The user selects a "recharge credit" button
    1. The user inserts how much credits he wants to deposit
    1. The user confirms

- Add new bike:
    1. The system administrator chooses an id for the new bike and confirms
    1. The system checks that the id is valid, and if it's not it fails the operation
    1. The system register the new bike with the given valid id

- See registered users and their credit:
    1. The system administrator interface shows always every registered user alongside his credit

- Monitor rides
    1. The system administrator interface shows user usernames that are on a ride alongside the bike their riding

- Monitor bike positons
    1. The system administrator interface shows a graphical representation of the bike positions on a 2D space

### Business requirements
- The credit of the user must be decreased by 1 unit every second

## Design

![Components diagram](./doc/diagrams/components.png)

### EBikes microservice

![EBikes microservice components diagram](./doc/diagrams/ebikes-users-components.png)

Commit message:

Fixed Ebikes and Users component diagram reference

README.md, after:

# Assignment #02 - Software Architecture and Platforms - a.y. 2024-2025

- **Description:** Consider the "EBike application" seen in the first assignment. The objective of the second assignment is to design and develop a distributed version based on microservices and microservices patterns - as discussed in modules 2.X and in Lab Notes about microservices patterns, and adopting DDD as reference method for the analysis and development stage.
    
- **Deliverable**:  a zipped folder ``Assignment-02-<Surname>`` including a maven-based or gradle-based project, with sources and the report in PDF. The deliverable can be submitted using a link on the course web site.

- **Deadline:** November 29, 2024 - 9:00 AM

## Requirements

### User Stories

|As a| I want to|so that I can|
|----|----------|-------------|
|user|go on a ride with a rented bike|leave it wherever i want|
|user|check my credit|understand if it needs to be recharged|
|user|recharge my credit|go on a ride|
|system administrator|see the current position of every bike|check if was left too far|
|system administrator|see which users are currently riding a bike|spot any anomaly if present|
|system administrator|see all the registered users and their credit|spot any anomaly if present|
|system administrator|add new bikes to the system|increase the number of bikes in the future|

### Use cases

![Use case diagram](./doc/diagrams/use-cases.png)

#### Scenarios

- Go on a ride:
    1. The user chooses an available bike and selects "Start ride"
    1. The user can see his credits updating while he's riding
    1. The user selects "End ride"

- Check credit:
    1. The user sees his credit right in the home screen

- Recharge credit:
    1. The user selects a "recharge credit" button
    1. The user inserts how much credits he wants to deposit
    1. The user confirms

- Add new bike:
    1. The system administrator chooses an id for the new bike and confirms
    1. The system checks that the id is valid, and if it's not it fails the operation
    1. The system register the new bike with the given valid id

- See registered users and their credit:
    1. The system administrator interface shows always every registered user alongside his credit

- Monitor rides
    1. The system administrator interface shows user usernames that are on a ride alongside the bike their riding

- Monitor bike positons
    1. The system administrator interface shows a graphical representation of the bike positions on a 2D space

### Business requirements
- The credit of the user must be decreased by 1 unit every second

## Design

![Components diagram](./doc/diagrams/components.png)

### EBikes and Users microservices

![EBikes and Users microservices components diagram](./doc/diagrams/ebikes-users-components.png)

The EBikes microservice and the Users microservice are both built follwing the hexagonal architecture.

They don't depend on any other microservice.
